so I'll make a lot better trikes and
doun hobby nerdy things but also I
really love music I've got a really nice
old pioneer PL 12 D record player
you know I've got a lot of CDs too but
there are some things like mp3s I don't
really listen to you don't have the
hardware to use it and it's just not
something I want to put on my phone but
here is the nerded up version of my
music system it can be controlled by
your phone and a computer on the same
network though a company called
Reichheld got in touch with me these
guys just somewhere around here they'll
be like a logo they got in touch and
said do you fancy making selling with us
and I said yeah sure and I checked out
the website and I sell loads and loads
of things and I think a hobby hobbyist
would like really to create stuff like
this this is a ruin audio player with a
Raspberry Pi inside a hifiberry dac+ and
it also has the official Raspberry Pi
touch screen and a massive SD card to
store all the music on and it's a pretty
awesome little thing so we've got stuff
we can add to the queue you can sort
things by genre by artist you can even
play internet radio stations or stuff
from a Samba share so that all well any
kind of share like an AZ Drive something
like that you can also just plug a USB
Drive in with mp3s on it and play it
straight off there it's pretty awesome
now I don't have a lot I can play you
pretty much one track is all I'm
choosing to play because it's otherwise
it's copyrighted so these are the parts
we're going to need I'm going to choose
this side as the mandatory side this is
the side that you're going to need to do
any part of this project and this is the
sort of extras side so you don't
necessarily need everything here but it
makes it cooler so we'll start off with
the Raspberry Pi now you can use it too
if you want I've chosen to use a three
because it's got Wi-Fi onboard makes it
a lot easier to use later on so we need
we need the Raspberry Pi you're going to
need a micro SD card now this one's a
massive one so this 128 gig however you
can use a small one something like 8 gig
will be fine but you won't be able to
store very much music on it but you can
use the USB so you can just plug in
a USB Drive so it is mandatory to have
one but not necessarily 128 gig you're
definitely going to need a screen so
this is the official Raspberry Pi touch
screen this one connects via the DSi
connector so that's that connector there
on the Raspberry Pi you use a little
flex cable to do that these can be
picked up relatively cheaply something
around 30 pounds I believe so these are
very recommended because they've got the
touch display on them too you can use
this header this so you don't need to
use a display but I want to make a cool
little display for this one so I'm going
to say that's recommended now with the
screen if you wanted to go for a very
bare-bones build we could see everything
you don't need a case however I'm going
to be using a case so I've got one here
this one is from Reich help but there
are lots of different options available
so I don't recommend a particular one
but this one should work well I may just
need to drill a hole in the side to get
the year the audio out and I'll show you
why in a second I'm going to put that in
the optional side I'm going to be using
a hi-fi berry so one of these this is
the hifiberry dac+ with a phono jack or
phone jacket so it's just a normal 3.5
millimeter jack
now this plugs on the top of the board
here just over the the 40 pin GPIO and
it does have the ability to expand from
the GPIO still but it has a 3.5
millimeter jack coming out and it will
appear over here which might not line up
too well with the holes in this case so
we might have to drill a hole but I
think this is pretty much recommended it
will kick out audio at 192 kilohertz at
24-bit I believe so you should get high
resolution audio out of it now I won't
be able to demonstrate that on YouTube
because you won't be able to hear it but
it should sound a lot better so I'm
going to pop that over here next up
you're going to need an audio cable just
a 3.5 millimeter jack one this one's got
gold-plated bits on it but that's not
necessary it's likely that you already
have one of these lying around but I'm
going to pop it into the mandatory side
over here
then I've got a couple of bits just to
make this project a little bit more fun
this is a icy box five thousand milliamp
hour power bank this one's actually an
alarm clock as well also has a
temperature on there and stuff so I just
thought would be fun to try and make
this portable and in keeping with the
portable theme I've gone for this LG
musicflow portable bluetooth speaker but
it actually has a line in input so
should be able to make the whole thing
portable plug the audio through this and
be able to listen to it okay so that is
everything we're going to need apart
from a power supply so if you're going
to do it without a power bank you're
going to need yourself a 2.1 amp minimum
power supply and it's going to have to
be a good one so to power the screen and
the Raspberry Pi it's going to need
something good so if you do run into
problems with that it's likely a power
supply right my SD card comes with a
little adapter which means I can plug it
straight into my computer which is great
there we go so this is our blank SD card
now what we're going to need to do is
format that so let's just get rid of
that we're going to use a SD formatter
so it's selected the wrong device so
we'll just select the right 115 gig
available we're going to change that to
format size adjustment on quick formats
fine
you don't necessarily need to do this
but it's just good practice to so once
that's done formatting excellent so we
can just exit that now the next thing we
need to do is load up win32diskimager
and it's going to ask me for extended
permissions that's fine and there we go
now if you go to runeaudio i'll put the
link in the description you download the
latest image for the Raspberry Pi 3 so
we're going to select that now
so if you just click on this blue icon
it should load up this here and then
we'll jump to the desktop where I've got
the image stored and there it is
now it's selected device a here so I'm
just going to check that is the correct
one yep he is the one we want to burn
our image on to and then all we need to
do is click write check it's the right
image before you do that now this is
going to take a little while it's
burning it
15:27 now 20 30 ish megabits per second
so it's going to take around 2 minutes
right now the Wright has been successful
we need to take the microSD card out
stick it into our Raspberry Pi and then
we're going to power it up we're also
going to plug in an Ethernet cable now
this is important so that we can SSH
into the device and we need to do that
so we can set up a few things right I've
left the PI running for a couple of
minutes just so it goes through its
first boot up before we try an SSH in
now I'm using putty which is an easy one
to use but you can try other ones and
we're just going to type in runeaudio
we're on port 22 ssh is the connection
type and we're just going to click open
and this should bring up a little
security alert about the host key but we
can just click YES on that and then it's
asking us for a login so the login for
this is root and the password is roon
and we're greeted with essentially a
command prompt and the first we're going
to do is resize our partition so we'll
start with fdisk /dev /m MC BLK 0 and
FDX allows us to mess around with the
partition table so let's have a look at
our current partitions so we type P and
it gives just 2 here we can see one at
the top is 100 Meg it's a fat32 thing
not quite sure what that is but we're
going to be dealing with that
one at the bottom so we're going to
delete that entry into the partition
table delete partition two and then
we're going to recreate it now we're not
actually do anything to data on the disk
this is just the partition table so
we'll do a new partition primary
partition partition number two and it's
already selecting a first sector just
here and it's the same as the start of
the old one which is fine so we can use
the default and then the last sector if
you notice on the previous one it was
four four zero one one five one and
that's not the end of the disk
essentially this is the end of the disk
here so we want it to be the default the
last sector on the disk and created a
new partition two type of Linux that's
fine so we don't need to do anything
with that and then all we need to do now
is write that so we press W it says the
partition table have been altered so
rereading the party table failed so I'm
guessing what we need to do now is just
reboot so if we reboot okay so we can
log in again so it's root and then roon
and now we can resize the partition so
we've we've changed the partition table
but we haven't changed the partition
itself so resize two FS and then we need
to use the actual dev MMC blk zero
partition two and this will take a
little bit of time not very long about
20 seconds I think and then it will have
resized the partition to the correct
well correct size of your disks so we're
using 128 gig SD card and so some of
that 2gig has already been used
okay that's done so now if we type DF we
can find out what the available size is
left so you can see up here we've got
used is 2% so it means that we have a
massive amount available which is great
and that means we can then put music on
to that as well next we need to enable
the I squared C interface so we can type
sudo sudo nano /boot forward slash
config TX T it's going to enable it in
the boot config of the Raspberry Pi so
we need to go to the DT overlay so this
is just going to display the option for
us and we're going to delete the comment
pair so it's it's got a little hash
symbol there so if we just delete that
it will enable that in the boot config
now to save we just do ctrl right out
which is the o enter and then ctrl X and
then we're going to reboot right now
just to check it's working if we go to
HTTP forward slash rune audio it should
bring us up the web interface now this
is the thing that we're going to be able
to see on the display but it's also a
way that you can interact with this
device if you're connected to the home
network so I can do the same thing on my
phone and we'll have exactly the same
interface here so I can look at my
library not that there's anything in
there at the moment because we haven't
transferred any music over so I can look
in the the library on here and I can
look in there the library there I can
get to play back I can go to the cue and
I get exactly the same thing on both
devices so now we know that it's working
we want to jump up to the menu and we're
going to look at network and it shows
that I'm on the Ethernet network but
actually I want it to be Wi-Fi because I
want to be able to interface with it via
Wi-Fi but I also want it to pull the
album art won't work from Wi-Fi so that
I'm not tied down to having an Ethernet
cable or having embedded thumbnails in
my music so it's a very simple process
for connecting to the Wi-Fi it's going
to scan your available networks and then
you can select the one that's yours and
add in your password so it's an easy
process that I won't show you because
I'll have to reveal my password but once
you've gone through that you no need
there's no need to have the ethernet
plugged in now when we plug in the
hifiberry we're putting onto the 40 pin
GPIO it's really simple then we're just
going to plug our Raspberry Pi back in
and then we'll go back over to the web
interface and we're going to enable the
I squared C interface to play music from
the hifiberry so if we click on menu and
we select MDP or MPD or other and then
we can select our audio output interface
and once that hi-5 area is plugged in
you'll be able to see this as an option
as a hifiberry dac+ I squared C so you
don't need to use that app plus you can
use the normal Raspberry Pi analog out
or HDMI out if you're going to plug into
a television but the the DAC plus should
give you better audio not that you'll be
able to hear it in this video so we'll
select that and it will switch the audio
output on-the-fly
now that's done all we need to do now is
figure out how we're going to get some
music on there and then build its
enclosure now we can get audio onto the
device really really easily once your pi
is sort of online if you're connected to
the network or to Wi-Fi you're going to
be on your home network now we can load
it up just like any kind of Samba share
that you'd get on windows
so we'll do backslash backslash rune
audio and then it loads up the shared
drive that it has so if we go into a
music store we go to local storage we're
storing on the SD card you can store it
on a USB and plug it into one of the USB
sockets and it will recognize it and
load it up but we're going to be storing
on here so we're just going to drag our
music folder over this will take a look
at time because doing it over the
network you can see the transfer
transfer speeds only around 3 megabits
per second so it will take some time but
once it's done we'll be able to see it
in the runeaudio interface right I think
we're about ready to put this together
now I've gone ahead and done a couple of
bits just so that I don't have to do it
on camera and take ages so we've got a
couple of wires soldered to the
hifiberry and I've done that because the
display needs power of its own has a USB
socket here however it's not very
accessible and I'd rather not have two
power cables one going to a display and
one going to the PI so what I've done is
I've soldered two wires onto here power
and ground so power is the first pin on
this side and the third pin is ground
and they're going to go into the
accessible pins on this board so let's
start putting this thing together so
first off we're going to be putting the
board on actually no we won't will what
we'll do is we'll screw on the Raspberry
Pi first this way around in fact before
we do that we'll put the the ribbon
cable on so the blue goes on the outside
it doesn't matter which way round this
goes just wear which board it goes into
first just as long as you get it the
right way round that's secure and then
the same with this one so blue goes on
the outside of the board so if I just
turn upside down over there we can do it
properly there we go and that's locked
in and then when we turn this over we
can put the screws in brilliant
now we can add on our
hi-five berry there we go nice and
secure and if I turn this round we'll be
able to access access the pins over here
so the first one is five volts and then
the very last one is ground and then we
can just pop it in its case hopefully go
the right way around its cables going to
bend around a little bit to let that go
in this could do with being a little bit
more out of the way I think so let's end
those up and over a little bit of
finesse required now we are and then if
we flip this over now we'll see we've
got our hifiberry jack is exposed and
we've got some screws down here my case
came with some screws to put this in so
pop those in now there we are so this is
just a test setup we've still got the
frame to go round I just wanted to put
this together without worrying too much
about having to take it apart again so
let's plug it in and see what happens
I have the small little display here
this is the icy box USB power bank so
hopefully this will be good enough
well we've got immediately we've got the
the rainbow warning box which means this
isn't really kicking out the voltage
that's required however it's still going
to work that just tells you that the
voltage is dipping up below a bit so it
comes up with this login section which
will quickly disappear and then show us
the the interface and there we go our
touchscreen should work there we go so
we go to a library we can look at our
stored music I'll need to refresh the
sources list that has refreshed hasn't
it and then we've got the music folder
and we have an album in here so there's
no speaker attached yet so what I do is
I'll I'll get this frame pop it on we'll
take all these bits of plastic off and
then we'll have a listen so let's get
this speaker out got it's a lot smaller
than I imagined I'm not sure how I big I
expected it to be so there we go I don't
think I need anything else from the box
so let's just get the plastic off so it
seems the battery is running low on this
so it wasn't working but I've just
plugged in a power bank to it so we can
get back onto it so I can alter the
volume on the touchscreen itself
and I can also skip ahead or back in
time you'll notice there's a picture of
a rather handsome young devil that's
because this is a YouTube audio library
piece of music and it doesn't come with
artwork so I added my own face on there
we can also listen to something that's a
little bit more high resolutions if I
jump back to the library now I'd have to
press it a bit harder so this is
something I wrote it's kind of like an
audio play so if you just double chapter
ladders that work and the cue oh it's
the button there is no Adam play the
touch screens a little bit picky to an
uncertain science gate so this isn't
actually I thought this was a high
resolution version but it's actually
mono 16-bit 48 kilohertz so it's not
really going to make any difference but
it's such a nice little thing to have I
would certainly recommend picking up the
various bits right I'll have got an
excellent range of sort of hobbyist
electronics and components and various
things like this Powerbank or this
musicflow speaker but pretty reasonable
prices so I would recommend checking
them out lots of other places you can
get them too but Raquel kindly provided
this stuff for me so I could make this
amazing assortment of things and create
something where you know I can transform
my record collection and CD collection
into something which I can pop on here
so I'm very happy did I press record